welcome to GUI ant in web browsers with
leasing it's 17th of April
2018 today I will be moderating this
call the trick will be taking notes
oli is not able to join but we have a
lot of people today as usually it's a
very friendly call and people like to
join it so if you if anyone has any
last-minute agenda items added to the
notes I posted on top
and unless yeah so I think we just we
will just start with regular team
updates and the most turns out I'm
always the first one so everyone else
has some additional time to add their
own updates and I'll just start sharing
my screen and give you some updates yep
so so the I think the main update is
that I just shipped new batteries of ips
companion this is a release that does
not include a lot of user facing changes
but there's one very important thing
that's feature detection of Chrome
sockets API is at the runtime and what
that means is the build that we publish
to Chrome Web Store which is somewhere
yeah it's here so the build that we
publish to the Chrome Web Store it
through it runs in regular Chrome but if
you install it on chromium based
browsers such as brave or something else
that gave access to Chrome socket API
strike FS companion then our the same
code will detect that and upgrade user
experience as described in
in chromium sockets one second so I gave
a demo on current state of embedded
gateway last week I think but basically
what happens now is we shipped this to
the data Channel and if you download
this brave package and load it to the
latest Braves nightly you will be able
to experience it on your own make sure
just make I need to might make a
disclaimer that you are not able to use
Chrome sockets yet when you installed
from Chrome Web Store that requires
small patch on the brave side but we are
working with brave to make it a seamless
experience so basically the goal is to
four people
- oh gosh really I just use the today no
yes so you basically just installed
break nightly then you install I profess
companion beta from Chrome Web Store and
you will be able to use it hopefully
next week so sorry that it's not that
very visual I just wanted to share why
this beta is important and for something
that's out there right now we've
introduced a configurable logger levels
in a cutest companion I think I have a
text compile here is it the latest one I
don't think so maybe I need to update it
or something yep
[Music]
or maybe later
anyway you are now able to specify the
levels of debug that you want to see so
if you are running about that note and
you want to see what's happening in the
p2p very low level stuff you are able
now able to on preferences screen
specify namespaces for logs do you want
to read and then you will see
color-coded logs from different parts of
our IP FS + IP Lippe to be stuck you can
filter out things that you don't care
the usual everyone who is familiar with
J's ipfs libraries already knows how to
do the beat now you can do it in a TFS
companion it will be very useful when we
continue working on embedded note that's
be it long for better release sorry
about that I shipped some changes to
Jace ipfs related to break integration
I created a proposal to switch the ad
from by default representation of C IDs
from base 58 to 42 the discussion
continues in link issues and had some
problems with bad word filters that got
triggered by our translations but that's
about it
some patches related to break
integration are not really blocking me
but they probably land sooner than later
if we want to get the future parity
we'll go ahead give us and my plan for
next week is to have some meetings
related to account
ENS and I want to continue working on
them by that gateway for brief namely
add with range request for Jessica's
gateway so we have like sitting in video
playback and and do general cleanup
HTTP gateway so I can finally move to
kill to keep transport I hope that was
not too long okay I have a quick
question so what's the companion release
process right now those changes are in
beta what triggers move to stable and
how long is the process from there today
it open in chrome apps yeah so we
usually ship a better and it stays in
beta for about one week and if there are
no issues reported we basically just
promote it to the stable Channel in this
case we have a lot of things that meet
land in jazz ipfs before we are able to
switch to release version and I don't
want to ship to a stable channel when we
still basically use a forked by version
of JSI PFS so that may take a little
longer on the other hand there's no big
problem with shipping that to stable
channel right now cuz people on standard
channel usually use aquifers desktop
anyway but it would not be very clean so
I would like to avoid that and we also
need that patch from brave to land in
breaks nightly to have this seamless
experience that you go to the Chrome Web
Store and click install and everything
works brave wants to they will use all
the integration in all the integration
they do they will probably use the
stable extension ID but will still be
able to install do an opt-in install
from the beta channel to iterate faster
for this specific release cycle I think
we will have the next table in about two
weeks due to those issues all right
sorry for
multitasking is not my best skill so any
more questions to me or can we move on
all right there what's on your end hey
everyone
shameiess anyway see ya so last week
I've been adding I've been working in
periscope I've been having the ability
to override external errors but this me
so when you're in a lesson in periscope
if something fails that well it's your
fault but imagine that an error comes
from my DFS before we were able to to
trick the messages for example this one
this no child named fest to add link
this is a mirror that comes from idea
fest but our normal user given or make I
look at this and this is not very clear
what I should do so a bit weak so this
is an option that the tutorial authors
can best and they just have to do just
best is prop and they put they catch the
errors and put the messages that they
want for example the message that you
see before right now so it's something
that okay you know what to do it looks
like you're greater default or whatever
did you forget to include how many no so
the basically now we have the ability to
override that our catch the arrow that
we want and treat the messages so that
is going to be a lot useful because
because in the tutorial from the MSS
there are a lot of errors that comes
back from my PFS and this way it's very
clear to the user what he should do so
this is a request that it's being
revealed but I think it's we're gonna
merchants
in the future yeah the other thing I did
have to go to the next session okay yeah
that's I'm sorry
live coding this is what happens alright
so another thing I've been working on is
in some lessons
we asked users for example when sense
something error or even if they use our
best a lesson we want to show in house
for example is IP address repo what
files are on it and stuff like that and
the way to do that we were asking him or
her to open the dev tools the console to
see some logs because we are just
logging stuff that's not very user
friendly so I add the feature to add
another step so you're on this lesson
normally just going to copy the solution
so instead of having to open the console
when you submit something you have your
messages and instead of this is what
would show on the console but now
there's a new step and shows here on the
on the UI so it's so much easier on the
eyes the user doesn't have to open the
left tool because many of em doesn't
even know how to do that so everything
is in the same place and again this for
the tutorial authors this is another
problem they pass to the lesson there's
everything is written in the modern
waits for you guys for those for you
guys that don't know about this when you
want to create a new tutorial you have
some boilerplate files for example I
Bella plates or when you want to create
a lesson that you need to files we have
are they to have a pilot slate or other
type of exercise and on that rubber
plate everything is written so you know
what you had to do if you want to trick
those objects so yeah that was it this
is another pull request nets on reveal
awesome yeah any questions developer
ergonomics matter error messages matter
that's awesome yeah and that the demo
style super helpful showing how it's
messed up changing in real time make
videos yeah quick in addition to this
video but sometimes the live coding
doesn't work hey guys yeah hi guys so
okay so what I've been doing a lookup
request to fix some browserify stuff
also another one to fix some stuff on
the COI make the demon exit a little bit
safer it's not merge yet but the PRI is
finished I did a deep dive about a penis
over DNS with idle to figure out some
stuff it was really helpful we did a
review session all about you here's a
big one is that we I was able to merge
the pr2 remove the ability formats for
for the browser
and basically the window size went down
around 50% which is a lot so that should
be fun for the users revealed a couple
of blog posts did the last release of
multi hashing with the cob export as a
0.6 version indeed also the first one
with async await as 0.7 I also have a
Polly quest on almost finished
to enable ipfs named resolved with the
knight PNAS path with a low - out of an
ash which is which I need to to
implement a penis over DNS and is also a
blocker for the browser integrations at
least brave probably all other ones also
reserved the domain IPS dot workers
death for the IP NS of the workers and
yeah the IP networks all we did already
demoed last last time we did the call so
yeah today we had a meeting about all
this stuff related to IPS I explained a
little bit about the two implementations
on I'm working on I think the meeting
went really well
both both of these segmentations were
well-received and we talked about the
biggest problems heads that's basically
how we will handle multiple
implementations which one wins what
happens when one errors out when
publishing and
and if we try to resolve with the one
that's error what what we should do and
stuff like that republishing of an
ibanez record is also a big problem that
we need to figure out but it was a
really helpful session we will be
opening issues around these these bigger
problems in the specs repo to follow up
on those and I will do next week or this
week
next I will try to fix the upload upload
problems that's all they reported
because I think that's big blocker for
the Yui team I also need to add support
for the file with file and file list for
Provo school I need to add the probably
quests shake for the bundle size so we
it's easier to keep it small
yeah and also continue a penis over dns
basically now what needs to be done it's
the resolver that will be a new package
a new module that we will run as a
daemon and will serve as a as as the as
the resolver the authority voiceover
either for a PL domain or user to my
yeah that's it any questions
oh cool awesome thank you
I had one question real fast if you have
the IP number DNS working now how does
that performance compared to the workers
approach hmm
I don't have the DNS working right now
but I guess it it depends on the on the
on the environment in node or in a
server or in a machine it will probably
be faster over DNS because of the the
cache the DNS cache in the browser if if
we do do like DNS over HTTP which we
will probably do it will be basically
more or less the same because it's an
HTTP request but I know I don't have
number so that's just a guess yeah I
believe it will be exactly the same if
we use DNS over HTTP resolver from
clouds low compared to workers from
cloud swell right but yeah all right
next max is the tree can I share the
right screen yes sir
and things this week still getting my
getting settled in I set up last week I
have to take a job to push new Stack
Overflow questions tag typing fest to a
private slack channel and I just monitor
that and when new questions are asked I
go take a look and try to take a stab at
answering some of them which just pushed
me down some interesting corners I'd be
Miss architecture turns out trying to
answer terrible we formed or ill-formed
questions really broadens the possible
answer so the the time time worth
spending because I learned a ton and
then also one of the questions I
couldn't reproduce the example code the
jeaious IP FSA should be quiet which led
me to that repo and it was because
there's a bug so I updated the packages
there made it so that the example runs
again now I which also made me test the
other examples and found some other
issues that we got fixed there I've
found some stuff for that I got set up
with a little salt as a translator for
the Chinese translation that's I profess
companions did a couple of translations
there that kind of a fun way to work on
vocabulary I read through a lot of the
community metrics work since I gonna be
working on some of that ruler Remender
the quarter I also did a little testing
of the package in the bundling
improvements that uh oh it's gone now
that I'm Hugo mentioned earlier and
found it on lighthouse where five
seconds faster in the their worst
profile which is really really big deal
for people on on slower connections so
that that work of reducing the bundle
size is really good a matter in the
field for real people making
applications that that pull into you
such as my BFS and
the rest of my week was a whole lot of
other collaboration and coordination
stuff some of which will show up in the
agenda and the items I added there
that's it for me any questions awesome
did you have any issues with
transifex at all it's a little it's a
little wonky trying to figure out what's
in there that add so there's a glossary
which is great so you're like okay what
is the translation for that for the word
gateway and well you know it's it's
really difference between both
traditional and simplified and Chinese
but also there's no way to share that
and the some of the words the actual
word themselves changes so like I looked
up the word for tab and the word for tab
is different if you're bookmarking it or
if you're closing it for example so
translating just but that's more about
the translations themselves in the
difficulties of il-10 and generally
right but the trans effect specifically
you can't only admins we found out can
share a glossary so you can't kind of
see what the conversation around what
the canonical word would be your
translation would be unless you're an
admin that's a lesson that would be a
killer feature for transifex I think and
really accelerate team's ability to
localize quickly especially for for
newcomers but especially since so much
of these terms are not conversational
very specific to the context of UI user
facing bits that are being translated
they're pretty easy to get set up kcon
that's a very good feedback especially
like I always wonder if that just like
you mentioned the same thing has two
different translations and like in case
of Polish translation I always I'm not
sure if that was like on purpose or it
was just basically two different people
starting translating stuff and using
different words for the same thing and
then they just translated 100% and
Harvey is that and half it's odd the
other that's that's been a problem and
glossary is sort of helping with that
for anyone not familiar with the process
like I said a dictionary of terms like
nouns verbs that you can define in
English and then people can can provide
suggested translation for each language
and then when regular people are
translating and that word is somewhere
in that string to be translated there's
a suggestion box on the right side I
think but yeah that's that sort of an
open question how to handle how to
converge multiple translations of the
same term across multiple projects we
have a translation memory which sort of
help helps it's like a dynamically
created glossary of previously
translated terms but it's like on your
own process and there are there's the
suggestions that show up what you typing
you start to get suggestions yeah all
right Eric I have to reprogram my eye I
have my lock corner down in the lower
left which is kind of the same way I
needed to go to hit the mute button but
I really don't have much reason to
unmute because I don't have much worth
reporting in ipfs lam this week
I've been distracted mostly with
creating designing a file coin brand
guide trying to do a an online brand
guide for Falcone hopefully I think next
week I'll be able to jump back on ipfs
but all right so not a lot to report
like on from DDC work but I there's a I
got tagged on Twitter by Michael Rogers
and he seems to know everybody in web
browsers in the internet space so I'm
gonna share this case I just thought it
was sort of funny it's related to so
yeah it was Michael he take takes me in
this thread I'll show you the whole
tread the guy he great rope react which
is like the lightweight person to react
everybody uses piled onto it and then I
had made an answer and then Brendan Eich
like he tweeted it so it's related to
the the cloud player announcement about
a MP
or is it EMP real Earl which is
basically the they were just waiting for
all the web packaged stuff from Google
to get into the mainstream Chrome
version and now now that it's out there
I imagine they've launched their product
where you can do the the web packages on
cloud player and it sounds like they
have a service where they'll actually
you don't have to go buy a certain now
they'll give you the cert for free so
that's really really exciting so I'll
have to try this I haven't really tried
it yet but theoretically and they'll
publish SXG files so if I just got the
SXG file off the cloud player and drop
it on ipfs it should work with their
gateway right I know oh yeah I think
right now you don't even need to be like
origin trial ended for anyone not
familiar origin trial was the the period
when it was like an experimental feature
and you had to add a special HTTP header
to your server to enable SGX
but I think that ended few months ago
and now it's in the stable channel of
Chrome I think yeah so let's see so
here's the thread so Malta malt
bubala is come first he's a guy created
EMP so so that he started the strand
here and then you got just PR cos ipfs I
profess he's Michael Michael bit
mentions me
CID T's for some reason they're linked
to our issue then I did that so I'm
feeling like I should actually like
revisit the stuff haven't touched since
December and see if it works
yeah
that's actually a very good like if some
if someone wants a quick primer on world
science XDP exchangers exchanges are and
basically how we started experimenting
with it and some learning material
there's an issue in in web browsers repo
when we documented no adventures with it
so but it was obviously extremely
painful to use it like in the very very
early days you had to do your own SSL
privately signed certs
and then around November they put it as
a origin trial and you could buy a cert
for lots and lots of money from digit
cert I think and then but then the
origin trial so right I'll had to work
to get that installed on her public
gateway so that was a lot of work but it
actually work and then I happened to be
in Tokyo so I actually took her the
experiment I had done made it work with
the public gateway and then I actually
went in because they do all the work on
web package at the Google offices in
Tokyo so I went and showed it to them I
met the entire team there they were all
really excited about it actually it
wasn't really it's not really been
designed for this use case but it was I
was I was thinking about doing a blog
post about it but just way too
complicated explain it and like you
still had to have like the pre-release
version of Chrome and you had to get
these like search from a specific sort
of place and it's so we could use this
for EMP packages the use case I had in
mind still involved using a
serviceworker so you can do could have
serviceworker take your website you can
cut it all into these sxg files and then
you can load it straight off ipfs and we
look like it would say HTTP at the top
and it would all be signed properly but
in order to get them to load you still
had to have a serviceworker in behind
the scenes so I don't know if that buys
you so much because you could
load things with the serviceworker even
if they weren't science okay so but it's
really interesting that it's out there
now so yeah yeah it's for sure easier to
experiment so now someone couldn't just
add to idea fess and play with it with
logging multiple gateways without having
this special nether not like the guys
think it would be a good way to assert
almost get like a bigger browser type of
experience for publishing close you
could just generate generate these X
this X G files if you had all the search
properly you could push them up a key
offense and you could browse them but
you still had to have the serviceworker
load which wouldn't load over the sx
Chifa over the sx g files and there is
still in the biggest drawback is that sx
g files you sign them for when i was
playing with it it was only seven days
so they did expire after seven days so
you'd have to continually republish
these things over and over and over
again so yep in the spec I've read some
time ago and I think it was changed by
since then but it said that one of the
purposes of what package is like
generally archiving and the 7-day window
they were not sure how to accrue the
design user experience around this 7-day
window basically the goal was that after
seven days you still should be able to
load stuff but there would be some
indication that it's like an archive oh
yeah they're talking basically do like a
time machine you set your browser clock
back in time to you know which sort of
makes sense to me that sort of go but I
don't know how he'd use it turn it into
general like what I what I was thinking
of doing yeah I believe we need some
like additional time for experimentation
there's also you're considered harmful
is the other problem with it
yeah but that was like for the beat oh
and now it's like be free version which
requires like additional rounds of
review so it's like an open open open
all right sorry yeah so I have when it
looks like I haven't been doing anything
usually going to work in that camp I
think that's actually the case right now
so I've done a lot of working offline
kids this week we're hoping well last
week we're hoping to lunch this week um
so stay tuned for that we have new
protocol chapters and haengju in Taipei
and then were repurposing a call so
starting tomorrow the call that used to
be sort of for the ipfs community
working group in general will be
specifically for proto school so for
both people who want to contribute and
build tutorials and people who are
leaving local chapters and want to share
what's been working well
etc so it's public I dropped in a link
to the issue so as we do with a lot of
other calls I'll be sharing links to
video recordings and meeting notes in
there so feel free to follow that issue
if you want to get those little pings
and reminders hub in your email um
everyone's welcome to come to that and
I've been out sick so um I have not
github says I have not personally been
very helpful with an m FS tutorial this
week but um you know it's may be very
good suggestion that we kind of merged
like comments out all the stuff that's
actually the m FS tutorial and get
merged all of the functionality we have
now around the file uploads etc and then
create a new bridge for that so you'll
see a new branch for the existing work
coming soon and I'm continuing on with
those lessons I'm definitely feeling
less blocked now and the new
functionality that gyoko showed you in
terms of being able to overwrite error
messages and display things in the
console is going to make
I'm not fast toriel much better than it
could be otherwise so that's awesome um
and then the other stuff that's next for
me is of course the offline camp lunch
and then better instructions for
tutorial authors as people start really
digging into content for ipfs camp so if
any of you are working on tutorials for
that and have questions about how to get
started with building please do you
reach out I mean I guess I need to
circle around with Dawid or someone and
clarify whether it's okay to be kind of
building all of that content in the
public for camp using whatever
procedures we normally would for proto
school or whether we need to hide it a
bit more to make ipfs camp dispensable
so I'll double check on that yeah I
think that's summary for me right now
going to see the doctor about the wrists
in an hour so let's see what it says
finally she whoever I don't know who I
see thank you awesome
any questions the third all right I
think we are at the end of team update
so let's scroll all the way up and the
first agenda item I think all argent
items are by ditching so they cover
they'll be very short ones though I
promise yeah so the first one as I have
a project not directly related but if
any of you are working and ipfs core and
are working also in file coin if you
know which components in ipfs world are
utilized by a file coin please send me a
message with the information you have
about that we had collecting that
information for various reasons but it
is pretty important so I'm gonna be
talking of course getting this
information from the people directly
working on it as well and I thought if
anybody to here also had knowledge about
that and had played around on folk on
Fridays or alt on file Queen issues and
knew which exact components and repos
were being used in ipfs of ipfs being
used by a file coin should we need more
private message to be great that the
second tissue is a little more fun more
like exercise
pop quiz writing time for all of you to
get your pencils ready yeah we had an
item for last week but last week got got
queued up real full to talk about
language it was one of the things that
came up probably 38 different times
during the two three days in Lisbon that
we're all together every time somebody
said paying somebody else would say we
really need to figure out what that
means and whether we should use the
music face of things saving sharing
lighting and Google and I talked a bit
about kind of these core primitive use
cases that you can do as a user in the
browser with ipfs you know saving
reading what you saved sharing what you
saved publishing new things around that
language there's a pretty big if we you
know use that as like a first baseline
that's how users think about doing those
two things and correlate with existing
services that provide these same similar
types of functionalities ipfs provides
or can our language is pretty different
so I was talking about that with
megahertz who I met in over video just
having a chat and she showed this video
in look in the lobby actually about
language I should actually like the
video which is worth reading her worth
watching and listening to about the
importance of language and how it how it
shows up in both the design process the
product development process and then
ultimately in the hands of the people
that use the things we make every day
but I wanted to take from that there's a
slide in there in that in that talk and
I want to do quick exercise so there's
LinkedIn ether calc there she wasn't
really the ideal place to dump all this
information but if you could take one
minute open that sheet
whatever your thoughts are about each of
these different components the nouns and
the verbs the people the actions the
places in ipfs world and it doesn't
matter what part of that product do you
work on it doesn't matter if you're
going to your core companion or proto
school or any of these things
feel free to duplicate free form you can
write something about your favorite
octopus
there are aquarium that's fine but put
just put your thoughts down whatever
comes first for just just a very short
period of time yeah Jim can you just
screen share just do an example so we
can see we're supposed to do can i
screen share so the green share button
in the middle level and yes so people an
example so somebody's already taken a
bunch of tasks that have been there and
that's great so people would be like I
could that's companion user or the more
user centered approach their a writer
somebody who wants to write something
and publish it to ipfs or somebody who
wants to save something or share
something features and places would be
like web UI or the companion button
some of the paths like those are some of
the actions that we talked about like I
want to and these are just my
interpretations I really have like
pretty open here it is getting as broad
a divergent set of thoughts on this as
possible is really what's going to help
us over time be able to refine and
improve this language and get the
broadest possible sense of what you all
as as authors contributors participants
in this system are thinking about it
this is a very low low high bandwidth
short timeframe exercise just take a
minute dump your thoughts in there and
then I'll probably collect them and then
chairman next immediately there's some
columns just to clarify like so word
goes through column a and then we answer
the things related to the word and B
through D yeah I think I think look at
the tasks actions call that's an exactly
perfect yeah it was correct before okay
but they're legit
that's right now it would go in a
because the nouns are these are
different verbs tasks and actions goals
purchasing actions what can I screw up
but it's not like let's say you put up
load you go right two places and write
down load or it's no I think pausing
action lists of things yeah they're
different lists so opposing actions
would be like I want to unpublish maybe
okay so there's no left to right thing
here this is just a bunch of individual
just a bunch of columns okay that's
that's my two minutes think thanks for
your assistance much appreciated
you
so quiet everybody so busy
thank you
one of my items got deleted on me
I think this needs a CR DT I'm waiting I
have my clothes the peer-based stuff in
that example I haven't cut as far as
actually writing something that's it
that's a question I had what is the
status of pure base I don't know if this
is the right place to ask that question
it's on it's on going yeah so I'm a mr.
pure base we'll talk about it
you
okay that was that was way over a minute
we could we can probably yeah close it
up now feel free to continue adding more
but I think we don't want to keep this
synchronous connection over high
bandwidth HD video going and related if
people have more narrative thoughts they
should feel free to to drop them into
the form that I just put in the chat
I'll buy you all a virtual beer I can
access that's okay you can say I have to
have a protocol that I will address this
is our known issues yes no I just got
one it helps
only you should be able to up in the
sharing on the Google farm right make it
available to everyone
yeah yeah just switch sharing option to
everyone with with the link to yoga will
not be silenced will favor thing
try it again thank you that's like pair
programming but for a sweet it has
little limit of magic it the ceiling
okay I think I think that's it for
anything else on the agenda today for
anyone action items I has a note-taker I
will add notes about the two agenda
items I have I bet if we add at the end
it's the only thing anyone wants us to
discuss or do we want to get five minute
bonus time I'm gonna practice my break
dancing for the next five minutes should
should we continue recording bye
everybody
alright guys thank you see you same time
next week
[Music]